source/TobiiProFusion.rst, before:

###############################################################################################
PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR` + Tobii Pro Fusion
###############################################################################################

This tutorial will demonstrate how to connect the Tobii Pro Fusion Eyetracker to your computer and PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.
The `Tobii Pro Fusion <https://www.tobii.com/products/eye-trackers/screen-based/tobii-pro-fusion>`_ is `Tobii's <https://www.tobii.com/>`_ high-performance eye tracker designed primarily for research purposes, offering precision and flexibility for capturing and analyzing eye movement data.
This tutorial will be primarily focused on the Windows platform.

1. Turn on the Tobii Pro Fusion.
2. Launch PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.
3. Go to the **Stream Tab**.
4. Enter or select the dropdown menu for the **TobiiProFusion**.
5. Click on the **+Add** button.
6. Click on the **Start** button to begin streaming data from the Tobii Pro Fusion to PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j63mmHf7muo"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

7. (Optional) Calibrate your device by entering the path to the `Tobii Pro Eye Tracker Manager <https://connect.tobii.com/s/etm-downloads?language=en_US>`_ on your local computer, and clicking on the **Calibration** button.

.. note:: You only need to enter the address of manager once, and the app will save the configuration for future use, i.e., for the following calibration, you don't need to enter the address again, just click on the **Calibration** button directly.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qHrlWp9ET0U"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

8. (Optional) Add more groups to see data more clearly.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nww_af1odXc"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

add note on changing framerate TobiiProFusion.rst

source/TobiiProFusion.rst, after:

###############################################################################################
PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR` + Tobii Pro Fusion
###############################################################################################

This tutorial will demonstrate how to connect the Tobii Pro Fusion Eyetracker to your computer and PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.
The `Tobii Pro Fusion <https://www.tobii.com/products/eye-trackers/screen-based/tobii-pro-fusion>`_ is `Tobii's <https://www.tobii.com/>`_ high-performance eye tracker designed primarily for research purposes, offering precision and flexibility for capturing and analyzing eye movement data.
This tutorial will be primarily focused on the Windows platform.

1. Turn on the Tobii Pro Fusion.
2. Launch PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.
3. Go to the **Stream Tab**.
4. Enter or select the dropdown menu for the **TobiiProFusion**.
5. Click on the **+Add** button.
6. Click on the **Start** button to begin streaming data from the Tobii Pro Fusion to PhysioLab\ :sup:`XR`.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j63mmHf7muo"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

7. (Optional) Calibrate your device by entering the path to the `Tobii Pro Eye Tracker Manager <https://connect.tobii.com/s/etm-downloads?language=en_US>`_ on your local computer, and clicking on the **Calibration** button.

.. note:: You only need to enter the address of manager once, and the app will save the configuration for future use, i.e., for the following calibration, you don't need to enter the address again, just click on the **Calibration** button directly.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qHrlWp9ET0U"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

.. note:: If you need to change the frame rate of your eyetracker. You can change it in `Tobii Pro Eye Tracker Manager <https://connect.tobii.com/s/etm-downloads?language=en_US>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nww_af1odXc"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
